Please check the resources section of this lecture.
There is a PDF download available.
In this lecture, we are going to look at various tasks that you must perform.
I cannot emphasize enough keep the packages on your server up to date.
The security of your server is of extreme importance.
We've discussed these commands before, but I'm briefly going to recap to update the package list.
So you do get an update to then upgrade the packages based on the package list.
So you do get upgrade if certain packages are being held back.
These are higher level packages that sudo upgrade upgrade cannot upgrade you.
They need to use sudo Atget just upgrade.
Normally after a dust upgrade, you would need to reboot your server.
All you top is sudo reboot.
Finally, when running the upgrade upgrade command, if there is a message that states that they are
unneeded packages to remove unneeded packages, you use sudo Atget auto remove.
There is a good example of a server that has not been taken care of.
15 packages can be updated.
The server also requires a restart of that restart is from a previous upgrade.
So what we do initially is reboot the server, give the server a while to reboot and we can log in again.
The first step, update the package list.
Sudo Atget update.
The next step is to upgrade the packages based on the package list, you get upgrade.
Yeah, we have a few notifications that we need to take note of.
The following packages were automatically installed and are no longer required.
We need to use Sudo Atget or to remove to remove those packages.
The following packages have been kept back.
That's telling us that the open VM tools is a higher level update.
We need to run.
Just upgrade.
The following packages will be upgraded.
Yes, we want to continue.
The situation facing us now happens fairly frequently, you are performing an upgrade and what is happening
is on your server, you have a file that has already been modified.
Now you are upgrading the upgrade command is prompting you.
What do you want to do?
Do you want to keep the existing file that is on your server or do you want to replace it with a new
version?
We have not edited that file or made any changes to that particular file.
So in this instance, we can install the package maintainers version.
If, for example, it was an Engine X configuration file, which we have already modified, we would
then keep the local version currently installed.
When this happens and you are unsure, the safest option to choose is to keep the local version currently
installed.
Our exit upgrade command has run, we now need to run, just upgrade to perform a higher level upgrade.
We finally need to run sudo do or to remove to remove unneeded packages.
That's our server updates taking care of.
It's important to check for theme and plugin updates on a daily basis.
A lot of the vulnerabilities associated with WordPress are not from the WordPress core itself.
They are from the themes and plugins that are being used with WordPress when you log into your dashboard
updates.
They are two updates for plugins.
Select all update plugins.
Our plugins have been updated.
If we go back to updates, our themes are also all up to date.
We also have the latest version of WordPress on a daily basis.
Log into your dashboard and select updates.
Now we need to look at site updates.
WordPress core updates refers to updating WordPress itself.
I have already mentioned that we are very strict with the permissions we are using, so any attempt
to upgrade WordPress using the dashboard will fail.
You need to update WordPress using the WordPress command line interface.
When you log into the dashboard and you are notified about a failed update, the procedure is easy.
Open terminal and perform the update.
You need to change to your site's root directory.
The directory of your site will be the public underscore HTML directory to update WordPress is straightforward.
Check the existing version.
WP Code Version.
The Update Command WP Corps Update.
Update the database.
WP Corps Update Hyphen DB.
Then I recommend you restart the FPM Service System Ctrl Restart seven point to IFN if rpm that will
clear the cache.
Finally check the updated version WP core version.
Refresh the dashboard and you have updated WordPress change to your site's public underscore HDMI Directory
WP Call Version five point to point to WP Call Update Success.
WordPress is up to date.
Obviously if there was an update available, WP Seelie will update your version of WordPress to update
the database.
WP Core Update Halfan DB WordPress database already at the latest database version.
Restart FPM Service Sudo System Ctrl Restart seven point two Halfan if rpm.
Finally you can type WPE core version to confirm the upgrade has taken place.
Another task which you need to perform on a monthly basis, possibly even every two months, is to optimize
your memory.
EDB databases do not do this on a daily basis or weekly basis.
We are going to download a script called my Iska Altuna.
Now, my Eskil Altuna will make recommendations to you based on the activity of your database.
For that reason, you need to generate traffic to get accurate and meaningful recommendations.
This is why I've already mentioned to you run the script every 30, 60 or 90 days.
You need traffic.
Otherwise the recommendations will not be accurate.
To implement the MySQL recommendations, we will be editing a configuration file called five zero hyphen
server dot C and if it's location slash UTC my esquibel Maria DB dot seo in F dot D, we are going to
use w get to download the MySQL Altuna script to make running the script easier on our server.
We will give it executable permissions and finally to run the script period forward slash followed by
the script name.
It's Gogia Terminal CD.
Please ensure you are in your home directory.
From the companion attached to this lecture you have the you are able to download the MySQL dot pl script
so it's double.
You get Levett space followed by the download you URL.
The listing will display the script.
We now need to change the permissions mod plus six, followed by the name of the script listing or display.
Read, write x, read, write x, read, write executable.
We are using Marea DB as our database.
Marea DB runs with elevated privileges.
When we run the MySQL Chewiness script, we also need to run it with elevated privileges.
So it's sudo devah space period forward.
Slash my eskil tuner dot p l.
Once my Eskil Tuner's run, you will be presented with a list of recommendations, general recommendations,
as well as variables to adjust the first time you run MySQL Tuna.
You will find that once you've adjusted the variables, a lot of the general recommendations will disappear.
The two are linked.
So what I like to do is select.
Both the general recommendations as well as the variables to adjust and what I do is I paste them into
my text editor.
Once I've pasted the general recommendations, as well as the variables to adjust, I create a section
underneath that.
I just call it Fiverr server entries.
When we look at the variables to adjust, it is query cache size must equal zero.
The temp table size must be greater than 16 megabytes.
The performance schema must be on the, you know, DB log file size should be sixteen megabyte if possible.
Now I need to edit those entries to reflect the recommendations.
So I've edited each of those lines to reflect the recommendations.
There's one more on the general recommendations.
Update your configuration with Schipp name, resolve equals one.
So let's add that to our five server entries.
Now we can select all those lines and copy, let's go back to terminal.
I'm going to type clear we need to change to the relevant directory etsi my Eskil Maria DB dot com and
if dot d we are going to be editing the five zero hyphen server file sudo c.p.
We need to make a copy of the configuration file before you edit the file so you do the name of the
file, followed by the name of the file you would like to create.
Now we can edit the file Sudano five zero hyphen server dot CnF.
You can scroll down to underneath fine tuning.
You can add a hash, my Eskil Tuna, and paste the recommendations that we received from my Eskil Tuna.
Once you've done that, you can exit the file, saving your changes.
My Eskil is running as a service on our server.
You need to restart my Eskil to enable the changes we have made to the five zero hyphen server dot cnf
file back to the home directory.
Do not do this.
I'm doing it as an example.
Sudo period forward slash followed by my iska altuna dot pll.
You'll notice the variables to adjust, query, cache, size and type.
We already changed those.
It's giving us an additional one.
Query cache limit must be greater than one megabyte.
I've added that particular recommendation to the text file.
It's switched back to terminal.
We need to change to the myriad botsio in F directory and then open the five zero hyphen server file.
Go back to our section, my Eskil Tuna, and to query cash limit entry, you can then exit.
Saving your changes.
You need to restart the MySQL service at this stage.
Forget about my Eskil Tuna.
Wait at least 30 days, preferably 60 to 90 days, then run the script again.
In this lecture, we looked at various tasks that you need to perform on your server.